M7 Class 30053

 IMPORTANT NOTE.   This model requires UKTS ID 2910 "2 Cylinder Generic Sound Set " to be installed in your MSTS setup.                 		  

The crew have been obtained from UKTS and incorporated into the model:

File ref - Crew Aliases_1  UKTS ID 7703

I would like to thank Paul Gausden for allowing his work to be used.

With the exception of the contents of the above file, the contents of this file - DEE_M7_30053 - are the copyright of Danny Gilbert. August 2011.

The model has been tested prior to release, but any subsequent download and installation must be undertaken at your own risk. The model is Freeware and for personal use only and all files are for distribution by UKTS only. They must not be made available from any other website - or used in any other way - without my permission.


RESKINS 

If you want to re-skin then go right ahead - I look forward to seeing them! The only condition is that a copy of this readme must be included in the folder.

My texture mapping is not very good - in fact it's probably quite confusing as textures have been obtained and modified from previous models. To identify the correct textures for a part it is recommended that you use Paul Gausden's ShapeView. Click on View and then Textures and this provides a full listing. Removing the tick from any box identifies the applicable parts in that texture. 


THE MODEL

The model represents 30053 in a clean-ish condition and fitted for Push/Pull operations. The livery is BR Mixed Traffic lined black. This loco was one of 105 built between 1897 and 1911. They were a very versatile loco being used both on local passenger and light goods services. Withdrawals from service began in 1959 and were not completed until 5 years later in 1964. This model carries a Bournemouth shed plate. 


HEAD CODE DISK INDICATORS

Disk indicators have been provided,numbered top down (then left to right facing the smokebox) from 1-6. To change disks just CUT the appropriate "live" or "dead" disk from the respective sub-folders and then PASTE in the main loco folder. Remember the Trainset file must have 6 in no disk.ace files included - "live" or "dead".


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I would like to thank Kieran Hardy for carrying out the essential fault-finding and independent testing of the model, which enabled problems to be identified and resolved before uploading. Also I am grateful for his brilliant screenshots, which are so much better than anything I could manage.

I would also like to thank Rick Gibb (1crick14a) for writing the .eng and .wag files - a vital part of any MSTS model and such an improvement over my tentative efforts.


Finally,I hope you enjoy this model. If you have any comments then please send me a pm or post on the UKTS Forums.


DEE4141

August 2011
