Milk Tankers, assorted. 1.1
-------------------------------------------------------

v1.1, March 25th 2005
For use with Microsoft Train Simulator.
Model and Textures by Mike Wilson
Created using Abacus Train Sim Modeler.

Please turn Word Wrap ON!

This is an all-new model for MSTS.

Acknowledgements
---------------

Many thanks to:-

Glen Woods - for the drawings and notes.  
Ian MacMillan, Pat Dalton and Bob Latimer for helpfully offering suggestions for improvement

About
-----

Milk was once one of the most important of railway consignments. With the need to get it from the farms in the country to the workers in the towns in a fresh condition it was always transported in trains running to passenger schedules, in the early days frequently in vans attached to said trains. From the origins of milk traffic, when churns would be carried in "perishable" vans, often with fruit and vegetables for company, the conveyances used developed into the milk tanker that was such a common sight on the railways everywhere until a few decades ago. Modern ones were steel-lined to keep the milk in perfect condition and were built in great numbers with both four and six wheel variations. Some were railway owned but many were bought by the big dairies and used exclusively for their own product.

Milk Tank workings were not restricted to the 'Company of Origin' and examples of the types built by the 'big four' could be seen on all the other Railways and Regions. Where they worked was dictated by the needs of the Dairies. Examples from photographic evidence, of those built by the Southern Railway, that emphasise this are SR tanks at Hemyock, Cricklewood and on the Wensleydale Branch.

In general the tank was owned by a Dairy and the underframe was owned by the Railway. The early tanks were 'glass lined' but the later tanks were 'Staybrite Steel', more familiar to us as stainless steel.

I have based my models on an SR diagram - one of these is preserved at the Bluebell. http://www.bluebell-railway.co.uk/bluebell/pics/4430.html

and a GWR Diagram O35 - I don't have any photos of this example, so the colouring is somewhat conjectural.

I have provided full (filenamef) and empty (filenamem) versions of each, as well as 'lite' versions for use in AI traffic.


More information can be found at www.semg.org.uk

Installation
------------
Before installing any models, I suggest you make a copy of all the files in the 
\TRAINS\TRAINSET directory - failure to do this may result in a lengthy re-installation process.

1. Run the installer file.  This will create the files in a directory called 6_Wheel_Tank_ExpressDairies.  This will overwrite the earlier version of the tanker I did (in 2001) and will not affect consists that include the earlier attempt.

2. Create a consist in the activity editor. The wagons will not be available to use until this is done.

That's it!

Why can't you name the folder whatever you want?  The reason has to do with consists.  If there is an acitivity that uses these cars in a consist,  in order for that consist to work properly, ALL the cars used MUST be present and in a folder named exactly what it was when the consist was created.


Legal Stuff
-----------
Any of the items I upload to the Internet are intended for personal use by the downloader. If you plan to distribute any item in a freeware route, you are welcome to do so without asking my permission. However, I would appreciate a copy of the route on CD so that I can enjoy it too. 

This is a small way in which I can get a return on my investment of time and effort, and all it will cost you is a CD, plus postage to Australia.


WARNING: It is not recommended that you delete these files once installed.


E-mail me at swlrbeta(at)uktrainsim.com

Thanks for trying this model

Mike Wilson