Maunsell Schools Class 4-4-0  30937 "Epsom" fitted with AWS. 

This model uses Lew Price's Cabfile with his permission. 

The model also uses Mick Young's crew file ccw_8F.s which should be installed in the Trainset "common.crew" folder.

With the exception of the Cabfile and crew, the contents of this file - DEE_Schools_30937 - are the copyright of Danny Gilbert. July 2011.


The model has been tested prior to release, but any subsequent download and installation must be undertaken at your own risk. The model is Freeware and for personal use only and all files are for distribution by UKTS only. They must not be made available from any other website - or used in any other way - without my permission.

RESKINS 


If you want to re-skin then please contact me first - I have a number of other Schools Class in the pipeline and it is probably best not to conflict. In general I have no objections to reskins - the only condition is that a copy of this Readme is included in the folder.

My texture mapping is not very good - in fact it's probably quite confusing as textures have been obtained and modified from previous models. To identify the correct textures for a part it is recommended that you use Paul Gausden's ShapeView. Click on View and then Textures and this provides a full listing. Removing the tick from any box identifies the applicable parts in that texture.


DEE4141



THE MODEL

The model represents 30937 in BR Green livery, with medium weathering. 30937 was built in July 1935, and received the Lemaitre exhaust and large chimney in 1939. It was withdrawn in December 1962 along with the remaining Schools' class still in service.

There were 40 locomotives in the Class, primarily built as secondary express locomotives which were able to travel where heavier 4-6-0's were not permitted, and also the restricted Tonbridge to Hastings line. In their final years they could also be seen on goods and parcels services.

HEAD CODE DISK INDICATORS

Disk indicators have been provided,numbered top down (then left to right facing the smokebox) from 1-6. To change disks just CUT the appropriate "live" or "dead" disk from the respective sub-folders and then PASTE in the main loco folder. Remember the Trainset file must have 6 in no disk.ace files included - "live" or "dead".


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Kieran Hardy - for carrying out the essential fault-finding and independent testing of the model, which enabled problems to be identified and resolved before uploading. Also I am grateful for his brilliant screenshots, which are so much better than anything I could manage.

Rick Gibb (1crick14a) - for writing the .eng and .wag files - such a vital part of any MSTS model.

Lew Price for so readily giving permission for his great cabfile to be used.

Mick Young (mickrik) - for allowing use of his crew file.




Finally,I hope you enjoy this model. If you have any comments then please send me a pm or post on the UKTS Forums.


DEE4141

July 2011
