BR 51T Bogie Rail Wagon. Code name Salmon.

Model and Textures by Ian Macmillan.

Prototype.

Built between 1952 and 1961, these wagons were intended to carry rail and track panels for the engineers but their strong constuction made them useful for many other loads. This strength made them virtually indestructable and many are still in use today.
They were 62ft long in order to carry standard 60ft track panels.
Early examples sat on 5ft 6in wheelbase plate bogies with 2ft 8in diameter wheels.
Later the bogies were extended to 8ft.
Most were unfitted but some were vacuum fitted and many recieved through vacuum and later air pipes.
Recently most were rebuilt with replacement bogies and air brakes.

Model.

Two flat decked wagons are included with 5ft 6 bogies and two with 8ft bogies.
Versions of each of these are provided with bolsters and loads of rails, Wooden and concrete track panels, giving you 20 wagons.
This version is in the original 1950s black livery. Many survived in this colour until the 90s.

Installation.

Unzip to a temporary folder and Move, Drag or copy the folder BR_Salmon to your trainset folder.
You will require to make a consist to see the wagons in MSTS.

Operation.

These wagons were mainly used during relaying operations.
A train would arrive on site consisting of an empty flat and loaded wagons of new panels.
A crane would then lift each old panel and place it on the empty, replacing it with a new panel.
The train would then return to the sleeper depot.
Normally, up to 20 panels could be relayed in an overnight possession, loaded on 5 wagons.

On main lines, the new track would have temporary rails. When it had settled, a train would bring in long welded rails to replace the temporary rails which would be returned to the sleeper depot.

A wooden track panel weighed around 5 tons and each wagon could carry 6. Concrete track was slightly heavier with 5 panels to a wagon.
In practice one less panel was loaded, this allowed the train to be sent over lower axle load routes.


Stuff.

This model in free to use. It cannot be uploaded to any site other than UKTrainSim without my permission.
Please ask permission for repaints. I will usually permit this, I just want to avoid duplicates.
Under no circumstances can it be included on any payware CD without my permission.

Ian Macmillan.
ian@BCLR.co.uk

 