Thanks for your interest in the NewForest Route or the "Watersnake" V3. 
The route depicts the Bournemouth line in Hampshire and Dorset, under British Railways Southern Region in the 1950s.

Installation
	The route is presented as a stand alone mini route. Download the route to a  “NewforestrouteV3”  folder in any location. Run by using the current "Unstable version of Open Rails or The ORNYMG version, then open the OR Options/content/ installation profiles menu and point to NewforestrouteV3 / watersnake. Note that the updater function on the MG version will produce errors. The route is OR only, and will not run under MSTS. There are custom global and tsection files. Do not copy these into an existing installation.

					 Copyright
 	A complete trainset isIncluded for testing the timetable. . DO NOT SHARE THIS as copyright remains with the model authors.
The route folder “watersnake” and Global may be shared
	Updates
Newforestminiroute is a work in progress. Updates are maintained on GitHub. Email me for details. rickloader@hotmail.com .

The Route described

	The working title "Watersnake”is an alternative name for the Southampton & Dorchester Railway - Castleman`s Corkscrew
(Both  alternatives were unkind jibes at the indirect path of the Southampton & Dorchester)
	The route climbs from Basingstoke, to a Summit at Lichfield Tunnel .Descending through Winchester,the GWR Didcot Newbury & Southampton joins us. At  Eastleigh. are marshalling yards, the LSWR locomotive works, and yet more branches to portsmouth and Salisbury.  Southampton has extensive docks with an alternative route to Salisbury via Romsey. At Totton another branch leads to Fawley refinery. We now enter the New Forest  and a hub at Brockenhurst. Here it splits 3 ways. Central is the 1885  main line to  Bournemouth . Swinging away NW is the "Old Road", the original route to Ringwood and West Moors . And to the South is the Lymington Branch. Reaching Bournemouth, many London Waterloo trains terminated and originated at the West station. Bournemouth West is also the terminus for the Somerset and Dorset line.
	Continuing to Poole, we rejoin the Old Road, and the 1847 line to Dorchester. At Wareham the Swanage branch diverges. Dorchester was originally laid out as a teminus, but a spur curves away to join the Great Western line to Weymouth, the final destination of many London trains .
	In addition to the main line, several subsidiary routes are partly represented. e.g the Great Western Didcot Newbury and Southampton, the Somerset and Dorset to Templecombe and the Salisbury line as far as Romsey.
	Southampton Docks has  reduced trackwork. The existing track shapes are not adequate, and the 1000 points needed for accuracy would overload the tile.
	The period is set around 1958 but would be valid from the late `30s when Brockenhurst was remodelled, to 1964 when the old Ringwood line closed, and possibly electrification in `67.
This version has scenery between Basingstoke and Weymouth. Elsewhere scenery is minimal but it is included so that trains may run over the complete network . In V4 I hope to complete the rest of the scenery
Timetable 

	The route focus is on OpenRails timetable mode. The aim is to simulate the complete network of services. Locomotives follow a complete “Duty” .Leaving the loco  shed  they pick up stock, run the service, dispose of stock, and finally retire to shed .
	Trains follow the  official1954 Engine working notices, and the 1958 Carriage working notices. Experts will detect some anomalies, but I have made the best of my limited sources. Docks goods traffic is mostly absent – no info.
	Trains are designated : time/origin/type/duty/lococlass
so that a train named 1330wloopass71BMN means the
 13:30 Waterloo passenger Bournemouth loco  duty (71B) no 381 Mechant Navy class loco .
	The timetable depicts a midweek summer day around 1954-1960

Getting started in timetable mode

      1) From the OR menu choose a timetable. Usually the last timetable in the list is the current version, but older ones are included for testing
2) Choose a train. LE means “ LightEngine” and is usually a good choice.
3) Don`t choose ECS, EGS EVS. These are empty stock and can`t be driven
4) General advice. Drive forward towards the siding exit or signals shown in F4 track monitor. In the dark bring up the dispatch viewer CTRL9. If still uncertain, find the train in the included spreadsheet – there may be clues. Unfortunately at present there is no way of giving a briefing.
5) Trains with “Obs” are observer trains for testing or just watching trains. They are not intended to be driven
6)  Unfortunately the present timetable unravels after about 7:00 am, but it is hoped to find a cure eventually

Loco shed codes Used

70A Nine Elms (London) 70B Feltham 70C Guildford 70D Basingstoke 70F Fratton
71A Eastleigh 71B Bournemouth 71G or BA Bath 71H Templecombe Brk Branksome 71I Southampton Docks
72B Salisbury 72C Yeovil
	
Train Services
A big subject, but here is a short summary.
Services over the route can be split into 2 Eras
1) 1930-1964. SR and LSWR stock on the mainline. Push pull trains with M7 tanks on the old road and Lymington branch. During this period Pregrouping and SR stock gradually gave way to BR Standard and Bulleid stock
2) 1964-1967 Ivatt2 and Standard4 tanks on the Branches. Rebuilt Bulleid Pacific and standard 4-6-0 on the mainline. Standard 4 2-6-0 on the humbler duties
Class33 Cromptons appear, and a few Brush Type4 class 47 on the prestigious or interegional trains. Hampshire (class 205) DEMU occasionally on local services, particularly on Sundays. This was Britains last steam worked passenger mainline.
Named Trains
The famous Bournemouth Belle. The Royal Wessex loaded to 13 coaches with a stop at Brockenhurst. The Pines Express (diverted from the S&D after 1962) Used maroon stock.
Channel Islands Boat Express. I believe used the old road?
Not named but the York (I think) train brought a GW Hall over the route There was a midday fast fitted goods non stop westwards over the old road. Fast goods were usually in the hands of S15 4-6-0, some times Q1 0-6-0. Pickup goods 700 , Q 0-6-0 and T9.
On Summer Saturdays 9 coach  through trains ran from Waterloo to Lymington. Usually changing to a 0-6-0 at Brockenhurst. Generally nothing bigger than a 2-6-0 ran through to Lymington
The Old road to Ringwood was much used as a diversionary route to Weymouth and Poole. Originally restricted to smaller locos, the bridges were upgraded to take the heaviest shortly before closure
Goods Traffic
Goods traffic was mostly mixed pickup goods ie vacuum fitted head with unbraked wagons behind. No long coal trains. Some fast fitted night  goods ran to Dorchester and Poole, remarshalling at Brockenhurst. There were few bulk goods trains. Bulk cement to Poole,  and of course the Fawley oil traffic passed over the Eastern section of the Route. The Eling Tramway carried lots of traffic, mainly Tar, timber and fertiliser.
Redbridge Works could almost be a mini route. A shunter was resident C14 0-4-0 or sometimes a B4 . Later USA 0-6-0 All PW materials handled sleepers, rails track panels and supplies for the foundry.

	
	Notes for Activity writers
	Bournemouth Central Down. Because 2 down platforms follow each other, Timetables will show 2 stops at Bournemouth. Route your path through the scissors x-over to avoid the second  platform. (or through lines avoiding the first platform then x-overinto the 2nd. Diamond crossings have extra track nodes added, so AI trains should obey signals.	

	Ground signals have “callon restricted” function for timetable mode. A yellow light will be shown when a train has callon.

	


	Accuracy
The track plan should be accurate, except at the following locations
Southampton Docks - a minimal, representation
Redbridge PWay works - reduced and  loosely based on  reality
Bournemouth Goods - reduced a little
Eling Tramway - reduced
Gradients are a compromise with the DEMEX generated  terrain relief and the skewed orientation of MSTS.  

Known Problems

1) Timetable stuck trains . At present some trains that previously worked well become inactive and do not move to their next location or pickup/transfer. I hope this can be resolved eventually. For now contact me for the latest timetable version or try a different timetable.
2) Open rails errors. The OR log will show many errors. Some are the results of track data base problems from the MSTS editor. For now the route should run OK.
3)  Signals were made for MSTS and some are not OR compatible. In particular the indicator signals.

 
	Copyright and thanks

		Copyright rests with the authors of the following  models (see route ref file). My thanks to the Authors for providing them.
All items in the following  classes
"greenery", " some terrtex			greenery@seznam.cz, http://sweb.cz/greenery
 Banks &cuttings.              David Gibbons
"HW scenery and buildings" Horses	 Paul Gausden
 IJtrees&vegetation. Bedford coach 			Ian Jenkins
 green shed.SRplatelayerHuts
 ContainertypeBD, mini, Jaguar,Fiat	Ian Morgan		
 signals             		            John Yelland
                                                            Simon Barnes
Vegetation Items prefixed "MS"		 Michael Sinclair
Vegetation prefixed MM                           Manuel Marder
Vegetatio prefixed RMays                        Ron Mays
1&3 arch bridge				Paul Mathews
backdrop suburban			Terry Thornton
signs variousSR/LSWR, ContainerBDPhonebox	Ian Morgan	
bzzmvtemplebar				Barry Munro
Etches shuntercabin, MRxing gates. signal  ganties prefixed SR_ and CL	Simon Barnes	
Telepoles texture			Jim Gough
Xmastreepylon				John Hedges
Pullman camping cars                            Peter Harvey
Vegetation bushes Prefix RF,cows , narrow gauge  textures         Reg Furniss
Banner repeater signals                          Tony Formoso
vehicles
landrover    scarab                                   mike wilson
bedford  mini                                          ian morgan
Morris	                                                 John Dibben
austin                                                   Jeff Layfield
ford pop, consul, trojan vans Foden        Martin Phillips
Vehicles Prefixed Doc. Trolleybus   Scenery items "Dov"       MartinPhillips
bedford vans                                          Tony Adams
Bristol Bus                                            Fred Carter
Morris Minor vans  A40                                 Trevor Burt
Sounds					Michael Sinclair
mineral02				Ian Macmillan
WA rail pile				Zoe Topper
New Roads 				Bruce Bridges, Martyn T. Griffin, Steven Masters, Jeff Rice 
Large Greenhouse	allotment		Frank Carver
Speed posts				John Kendrick
sewage works				Charles Malcolm
  GWR footbridge			Gordon Mackenzie
6 coasters in "boats" - Darwin Smith.
Travelling crane Frank Sandwell
Refinery - William W. Bieszczak Russel Beer
One or more textures bundled with this project have been created with images from Textures.com. These images may not be redistributed by default. Please visit www.textures.com for more information."
Vegetation RU Alexey Grebnev Vitaly Alyonkin
 cloud textures Claus Visby Overgaard, Scott
Many other models are my own. My own models may be freely used and distributed, but I would appreciate a mention in a "readme"
If there is ANY doubt as to the author of a model please contact me . Apologies to anyone I have missed.

Special thanks to
		
		Chris Jakeman - Open Rails and GitHub support 
		Darwin Smith OR .eng files and carriages
		David Forrest - File organisation
		Martin Phillips - vehicles
		Richard Stevenson and John Fox -signal Info
		David Gibbons - texturing and prototype  help.
		Tim Booth -  UKFS track
		
		Andrew Moody - prototype info
		John Yelland, Simon Barnes - custom Signals and signal kits
		Rob Roeterdink – timetable mode author
		The Open Rails team
		Goku – TSRE route editor
		
Route History
		New Forest Route was originally created on a P4 3GHz  1Gb RAm  Nvidia 7800 graphics card. Now I7 16gb memory  64bit W10 with Nvidia GTX1050

		V1 Intial Release Feb 07
		V1.1 5March07 . track database rebuild. Linked signals reinstalled.
		V1.2  Feb 09   Scenery extended to Pokesdown. additional signals in response to feedback	
		V2 Nov 09   Track improved at Bournemouth and Southampton Docks. Scenery extended to Bournemouth and Westmoors. Additional custom signals added.
		V2.1Dec 09  Christchurch signal relocated. Newroads files eliminated.
		V3 July19. Route extended to Basingstoke, weymouth and Templecombe.Route optimised for OR timetable mode. Now OR only
		V3 April22 Route released on GitHub

Personal
	In 1958 my mother took a teaching job at Brockenhurst. As a toddler I took the 08:10 train from Christchurch. It was only an M7 tank engine, but that engendered a life long love of trains .
	I hoped to recreate the Bournemouth line in MSTS, but it was only the advent of Open Rails timetable mode that enabled the possibility.
	It is true the line had little spectacular scenery, but the locos had huge variety in age and type. The train services were complex, and I hope you will find them fascinating. For example, follow the early morning newspaper and fish trains . The Southern tried hard to serve its passengers with cross platform connections, or through carriages, even if this resulted in extra operating trouble. The Southern invested heavily elsewhere, and as a result some underinvested locations such as  Bournemouth Loco must have been difficult for staff.Try it at 06:00!
	Newforest route shows the system at its height. In the 1960s the traditional railway was swept away. Local goods yards were closed. Steam abolished 1967. In 1964 the Old Road closed, followed by closure of Bournemouth West and Southampton Terminus. The Somerset & Dorset succumbed in 1966. On the positive side, electrification to Weymouth provides a fast frequent service, and is heavily patronised. The Swanage Branch survives in preservation,
	 It is hoped that New Forest Route will give some insight into the 1950s railway scene.
	Contact
		rickloader@hotmail.com  UKTS ID, Elvas Tower  rickloader
Best wishes Rick		Richard Loader July19
