Drummond L&SWR T9 Class 4-4-0  30707

This loco was originally modelled by John Riddell (cardean) and subsequently - with John's permission - finished and prepared by Danny Gilbert (DEE4141).

The crew have been obtained from UKTS ID 7706.

With the exception of the crew, the contents of this file - BR_T9_30707 - are the copyright of John Riddell. August 2013.

 
The model has been tested prior to release, but any subsequent download and installation must be undertaken at your own risk. The model is Freeware and for personal use only and all files are for distribution by UKTS only. They must not be made available from any other website - or used in any other way - without permission.


RESKINS 

Reskins are permitted on the condition that a copy of this readme is included in the folder.

To identify the correct textures for a part it is recommended that you use Paul Gausden's ShapeView. Click on View and then Textures and this provides a full listing. Removing the tick from any box identifies the applicable parts in that texture.



THE MODEL

The model represents 30707 in BR Mixed Traffic Lined Black livery, in clean ex-works condition. The T9 was designed by Dugald Drummond and they were constructed between 1899 and 1901. The class was popular with crews and eventually were to become known as "Greyhounds". The last of the class was withdrawn from BR service in 1961. 


HEAD CODE DISK INDICATORS

Disk indicators have been provided,numbered top down (then left to right facing the smokebox) from 1-6. To change disks just CUT the appropriate "live" or "dead" disk from the respective sub-folders and then PASTE in the main loco folder. Remember the Trainset file must have 6 in no disk.ace files included - "live" or "dead".


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I would like to thank Kieran Hardy for carrying out the essential fault-finding and independent testing of the model, which enabled problems to be identified and resolved. 

I would also like to thank Rick Gibb (1crick14a) for writing the .eng and .wag files - such a vital part of any MSTS model.




Finally,I hope you enjoy this model. If you have any comments then please send a pm or post on the UKTS Forums.


DEE4141 (on behalf of John Riddell)

August 2013
