SR Bulleid Coaches.

O.V.S. Bulleid joined the Southern Railway in 1937 but spent the first few years on electrification work and improving the existing rolling stock.

In early 1939 an order for new Maunsell design 58ft coaches was issued but only 54 underframes were completed before all work was suspended due to the works concentrating on war work.

Finally in 1945 an order for 18 3coach sets was issued using the underframes. These were similar to the existing Maunsell design with doors to each compartment but used the Bulleid bodyshell as used in his EMUs.
A further 4 3coach sets were ordered on new 64ft underframes.
These were similar with an additional compartment.

Sets were made up BTK-CK-BTK.

Models of the 58ft coaches are available with the Southern route by Blue Arrow.


In 1945 an order for 310 new coaches was approved.

The first pure Bulleid coaches appeared in 1946.
These featured a 64ft6 brake with an open 4 bay section, two compartments and a short guards and luggage section and a composite with 4 first and three third compartments.
After some supply problems they were fitted with 10 1/2in deep sliding vents.
THey were formed into 24 3car sets.

Next came probably Bulleid's finest trains - 11 Bournemouth 6car dining sets. These were the first and only fixed sets to include cattering vehicles. Care was taken with the finish. THe bodyside was extended to cover the frames. THey had chrome handrails and the ends painted to match the sides.
The sets were marshalled so that the first class sections were together next to the kitchen of the restaurant car with the open third at the seating end for overflow.

13 2coach sets followed made up with a semi-open brake 3rd and a brake composite. They were intended for through working to the major branch lines but by the time they were introduced there were few through workings and they spent most of their lives on the main line.

Next came loose coaches. 40 brake composites were mainly used as through coaches on the Atlantic Coast Express. Along with them came 13 CKs and 5 TKs for strengthening the fixed sets.

All the coaches so far were allocated to the formal LSWR lines. The next build went to the South Eastern sector.
It was for 14 4car sets composed BTO-CK-SK-BTO. These had a change to the windows with 16in deep vents.
They emerged in 1949 and were the last to be outshoped in malachite green.

The final coaches from the 1945 order were the most notorious - the Tavern car and ajoining restaurant composite.
The idea was to create an "olde worlde" inn on wheels. The new BR livery of crimson and cream had been introduced so why not paint the crimson as imitation brick and paint oak beams on the cream?. Inside was more fakery.
The restaurant car had seating facing inward along the coach side.Only the top window light was fitted meaning the diners could not see out. The idea was to increase the throughput of passengers but the gloomy atmosphere meant they didn't come at all.
After numberous complaints the coaches were withdrawn within a year. The Tavern cars got off with a repainted but the resaurant cars were rebuilt with conventional seating and windows.


Although the 1945 order was for 310 coaches, goverment restrictions and shortage of materials meant that delivery would be slow and the need to replace worn out older coaches was urgent.
To speed things up the Southern also ordered 35 3car sets from the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Co.
The BRCW was given some latitude in the design and the windows had an external frame and were 3in shallower. The corridor windows did not have sliding vents. The brakes had a longer toilet and, for the first 10 sets, this was countered by a shorter coupe compartment next to the van.

All 35 sets were allocated to the South East sector. They were finished in Malachite green and none seem to have been repainted in crimson and cream - going directly to BR green after 1957.

Models of the BRCW coaches are available with the Southern route by Blue Arrow.


The next major order came in 1947.
40 corridor firsts for boat trains.
BTOs, TKs and CK for the south east - most of which were formed into sets.
And 20 3car sets for the south west.

All had 16in vents and were turned out in BR crimson and cream. Only the FKs were a new design.

The final order was in 1949.
50 corridor thirds mainly to strengthen the 3car sets in summer
40 open thirds for boat trains similar to the Bournemouth set vehicles but without the tables.
16 3car sets for both SE and SW sectors.


The bulleid coaches maintained their mainline duties until the late 50s gradually being pushed into secondary services by electrification.
The sets were kept intact until the early 60s when Mk1s began to be inserted.
Some were transfered to the western region when the regional boundries were changed.
All were gone by 1968 but some live on in preservation.




 