THe Companies that formed the Southerb all formed their passenger co9aches into fixed sets and the practice continued into BR until 1964 when withdrawals made it impractical to reform sets.

The majority were formed into 3car sets with a brake third, composite and brake third with the luggage compatments outermost.
Additional loose coaches were built to add to the sets as required.
Sets were rarely split. If one coach required repairs the whole set would be withdrawn.


Trains were made up with 2 or more sets with loose coaches between them or added to the front. Ministry of transport insisted the rear coach was always a brake.
Loose coaches could be a pair of thirds or a third and a composite.
Important expesses would include a dining set consisting of a restaurant car and a kitchen car.
During summer some 3coach sets had a pair of thirds inserted to make a 5coach set. Otherwise insertions were rare.

Coach diagrams were extremely complex. Most trains were reformed each journey, dropping off coaches at quiet times and adding them at peak times. The Southern did not believe in hauling empty seats.
The longest platform at Waterloo could only accomodate 13 coaches but maximum train length was usually 12.

An exception to the strict formations were the boat trains.
Although some sets existed on paper they rarely ran as planned.
Advance booking and reservations meant the company had a good idea of what was needed. One day could see a full first included for wealth toffs heading for the Med. The next day could need an open third for a school trip to France. The only rule was a brake at the end. One or more luggage vans were usually included.
Each port had a slection of spare coaches for use as required.
Boat train vehicles were also used for race specials.


Liveries.
Little painting was done during the war and Most main line coaches recieved malachite green between 1945 and 1949 when BR crimson and cream was introduced. Late built Bulleids were delivered in crimson but 30% of coaches were still in malachite when the darker BR green was introduced.
Trains after 1957 could be rather colourfull.
Set were repainted together and mixed liveries were rare within sets but no effort was made to match sets and loose coaches in complete trains.
