Merchant Navy Rebuilt 35009 "Shaw Savill"


The crew have been obtained from UKTS ID 7706.
The sounds have been obtained from UKTS ID 3842.

With the exception of the crew and sounds, the contents of this file - DEE_MNR_35009 - are the copyright of Danny Gilbert. December 2009.

The model has been tested prior to release, but any subsequent download and installation must be undertaken at your own risk. The model is Freeware and for personal use only and all files are for distribution by UKTS only. They must not be made available from any other website - or used in any other way - without my permission.

RESKINS 


If you want to re-skin then go right ahead - I look forward to seeing them! The only condition is that a copy of this readme is included in the folder.

My texture mapping is not very good - in fact it's probably quite confusing as textures have been obtained and modified from previous models. To identify the correct textures for a part it is recommended that you use Paul Gausden's ShapeView. Click on View and then Textures and this provides a full listing. Removing the tick from any box identifies the applicable parts in that texture. Most of the required textures are on DEE_MNR_xxx. ace files. There are a few odd files e.g. MN07.ace that can be ignored for reskins, however they have had to be included here as they were used to texture individual polys on transferred parts.


DEE4141



THE MODEL

The model represents 35009 Rebuilt and in BR Brunswick Green livery. 

There were 30 locomotives in the Merchant Navy class - all were originally air-smoothed ("Spamcans") and later Re-built to a more maintenance friendly design. 35009 was one of a 2nd build series and first entered traffic on 25/6/42. Rebuild date is given as 23/3/57. Withdrawn in September 1964 it was eventually purchased for preservation. 

They were essentially used on passenger express services, but it wasn't unusual to see them on freight duties - often as a "return run" after taking a passenger service from London to Exeter or vice-versa.


HEAD CODE DISK INDICATORS

Disk indicators have been provided,numbered top down (then left to right facing the smokebox) from 1-6. To change disks just CUT the appropriate "live" or "dead" disk from the respective sub-folders and then PASTE in the main loco folder. Remember the Trainset file must have 6 in no disk.ace files included - "live" or "dead".


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I would like to thank Kieran Hardy for carrying out the essential fault-finding and independent testing of the model, which enabled problems to be identified and resolved before uploading. Also I am grateful for his brilliant screenshots, which are so much better than anything I could manage.





Finally,I hope you enjoy this model. If you have any comments then please send me a pm or post on the UKTS Forums.


DEE4141

December 2009
