Narrow Guage Hudson "Rugga" wagons
-------------------------------------------------------

V1.0, January 9, 2003
For use with Microsoft Train Simulator.
Model and Textures by Mike Wilson
Created using Abacus Train Sim Modeler.

Please turn Word Wrap ON!

This is an all-new model for MSTS.

Aknowledgements
---------------

Many thanks to:-
Kevin Martin, for the original readme file and for inspiring me towards NG...
Roy C Link, for all manner of Industrial data.

About
-----
IMPORTANT :- These models have been built to true scale NG standards, and represent rolling stock built to about 2 foot guage. They will run with standard gauge stock etc but will look very odd. 

The Hudson company designed the 'Rugga' brand skip wagon for 2' guage industrial railways before the Great War, and supplied many hundreds of them to the War Department during the war, for use by the Light Railway Operating Companies, both domestically, and abroad in France, Palestine and indeed every theatre of the war.

After the war, the bulk of the stock passed into private hands, for scrapping or industrial use.  The basic underframe was very versatile, and converted to many uses, some of which are portrayed here.   Many conversions were locally undertaken - so some licence is allowed.

I have provided:

Skip wagons, empty and loaded with Chalk, Coal, Gravel and Stones.
Flat wagons, empty and with a crate load.
Bolster wagons, empty and with a log load.
A fuel drum transporter.
A fuel bowser, with pump and hose.

Not all wagons are fitted with brakes.  Unfitted wagons are denoted as xxx1 - eg ngRugga1
Handbrake Fitted wagons are denoted as xxx2 - eg ngRugga2
The prototypes would have been fitted with a tow coupling - this translates as a bar coupler in MSTS, so I have 'rebuilt' these wagons with a group standard UKNG coupler.

If there is sufficient interest, I will release another pack with bogie flat, open box and front tipping skips.

Installation
------------
Before installing any models, I suggest you make a copy of all the files in the 
\TRAINS\TRAINSET directory - failure to do this may result in a lengthy re-installation process.

1. Unzip the file into a folder called "Train Simulator\Trains\Trainset\NG_Ruggas"

2. Create a consist in the activity editor. The wagons will not be available to use until this is done.

That's it!

Why can't you name the folder whatever you want?  The reason has to do with consists.  If there is an acitivity that uses these cars in a consist,  in order for that consist to work properly, ALL the cars used MUST be present and in a folder named exactly what it was when the consist was created.


Legal Stuff
-----------
This model is for your personal use only, and may not be sold or distributed in any way without permission.

Please be aware that this model may or may not be compatible with all the rolling stock that you have available.

WARNING: It is not recommended that you delete these files once installed.


E-mail me at sp762@ozemail.com.au

Thanks for trying these models

Mike Wilson